[Music]
nine signs you're going through puberty
acne crushes mood swings that's right
I'm talking about puberty as if growing
up weren't hard enough as you enter
adulthood you have tons of weird and
embarrassing things to face on the daily
but don't worry the more you know about
your changing body the easier will be to
deal with so grab some acne cream and
take notes because this stuff can be
seriously challenging while there are
some slight differences
boys and girls both go through puberty
at one point or another awesome kind of
for girls puberty usually hit somewhere
between ages 10 and 14 boys can expect
to greet the big P closer to the ages of
12 to 16 of course your genetic makeup
and environmental factors can dictate
exactly when you'll start going through
puberty girls one physical changes one
of the first things girls may notice
when going through puberty is their
changing body in particular the area
between the torso and head yeah I'm
talking about breasts boobs bazoombas
lady pillows you get the idea
girls will notice their chest starting
to fill out when puberty begins but it
isn't necessarily a quick process a
girl's chest changes over a longer
period of time and they aren't always
fully developed until the age of 19 or
so but honestly no two girls are alike
development and its speed depend on each
individual girl if you're worried about
attention concerning your chest wear a
bra even if it's a training bra that way
you can keep everything private in gym
class you may also notice that your hips
seem to be growing too they seem wider
than before you suddenly have a curvier
shape than you did as a kid the widening
of the hips is your body's way of
growing into a woman who will be able to
bear children one day but don't stress
about your change in shape ask your mom
or dad to take you shopping as you may
need a more flattering pair of jeans to
hair at this time girls may also notice
that they're growing more hair on their
bodies like under their arms
on their legs and down there if it makes
you feel uncomfortable ask a woman you
trust about shaving options boys one
growth spurt hey boys feeling left out
don't worry you go through plenty of
changes too
thanks to a new hormone called
testosterone but you tend to see these
changes a little later than girls do if
you're a boy wondering when you'll catch
up with all those tall girls you see at
school don't worry
it does happen somewhere between the age
of twelve and fourteen boys begin their
official growth spurt and can expect in
approximately three to 12 inch surgeon
size but before you run out to pursue a
career in the NBA remember that not all
guys grow up to be super tall of course
it depends on your genetics sorry guys
to voice changes in hair another
embarrassing quirk guys can look forward
to during puberty at around age 14 or 15
boys will notice that their voices will
get deeper and go in and out causing a
cracking sound while it may make people
laugh this change in your voice is
completely expected you may also notice
a bump in your throat becoming more
pronounced it's called an Adam's apple
no you can't eat it and similarly to the
girls boys will also notice an increase
in body hair including on their faces oh
hey there mustache while boys and girls
have different signs of puberty to deal
with there are other symptoms that both
genders experience and they can be
equally as awkward one acne a sudden
change in hormone levels can play havoc
with your skin causing major breakouts
both on the face and body and while
walking into class with a massive pimple
on your forehead may not be the fashion
statement you are going for everyone
gets pimples and should be understanding
about it if you're especially concerned
about this there's a preventative
exercise you can do to keep your skin
healthy start by gently pulling the skin
from under your eyes downward with your
fingertips now close your eyes and count
to six doing this exercise on the sub
labial and super frontal muscles in your
face a couple of times each day helps
your blood circulate and gives your
complexion a healthy glow
can do wonders for acne ridden skin in
addition to this exercise book a visit
with a dermatologist to explore other
acne prevention methods - new body odor
while some call it teen spirit that's
sent hitting your nose around puberty
time is called body odor while this new
aroma may be embarrassing it is
completely normal in both boys and girls
if you're noticing your armpits smelling
more than usual like on a hot day or
after you played sports it's time to
start wearing an antiperspirant or
deodorant there are different kinds of
deodorants out there gel powder and even
spray it all depends on what you are
most comfortable using 3 crushes while
many of the boys or girls in your class
once seemed annoying or gross they may
seem really attractive nowadays don't
worry these feelings are totally normal
and you'll get used to them over time as
you grow into an adult you'll develop
crushes on people even those who once
seem gross and annoying at first these
feelings are super awkward to deal with
and the idea of getting rejected by your
crush is unbearable you'll get the hang
of things over time and feel more
comfortable expressing your feelings to
people you like just remember that while
you may have urges to hang out with your
crushes and other new people it's always
ok to say when something makes you feel
uncomfortable it's your body and you're
the boss 4 major mood swings feeling
particularly angry about not getting a
part in the school play is your new
curfew really upsetting you know you're
not going crazy
your new surge of hormones is giving you
mood swings these mood swings can make
you feel angry depressed and even
rebellious sorry mom and dad it's
because at this age you're exploring who
you really are and what you really want
in life all this thinking and
discovering leads you to be more
independent than ever before and that's
okay it's fun to try new things and
learn about the world just be reasonable
don't put yourself in dangerous
situations simply because you're curious
keep a good head on your shoulders 5
just talk about it
it's easy to watch this video about
puberty and all its glory but actually
going through it is a whole different
story
things can get really overwhelming and
even scary so it's a good idea to find
someone to talk to about these changes
you're going through school counselors
are a great resource
turning the siblings or family members
you can trust can also be incredibly
helpful if you like keeping your
feelings to yourself that can be okay
too
try finding a creative outlet to throw
your feelings into perhaps you can write
your own novel or maybe you have a knack
for drawing and want to create your own
comic strip even something as simple as
writing in a journal every night can
really help keep you grounded and
organize your thoughts just remember
that puberty doesn't last forever thank
goodness it won't always be awkward
talking to your crush or shopping for
bras with your mom it'll pass and you'll
become the amazing adults you're meant
to be so sit back and enjoy the ride
which symptom of puberty threw you the
most don't be shy tell us about it in
the comments section don't forget to
give this video a like share it with
your friends and click Subscribe stay on
the bright side
[Music]